+++

title = '0x04'
date = 2023-11-01T09:24:47+05:30

+++

# 0x04 — systemdo or systemdon't

Sometimes in the *nix community, people will tell you things like "systemd is bad" and you shouldn't use it.  
After that, they will bandy reasons why systemd is considered to be problematic.  

For any normal or informed user, some of the arguments against systemd may hold some validity.  
However, for users unfamiliar with nix, these are misleading justifications for not utilizing systemd.  
This blog entry is specifically targeted towards the latter crowd.  

Systemd is often referred to as a "software suite," which means it offers a wide range of tools. However, many of these tools are complex and require advanced knowledge to utilize effectively.  
None of systemd's components are inherently bad.  

The problem with systemd is that the entirety of the software suite is executed as pid 1.  
The first process is the one that on many systems is the init system. It is the highest parent process in the hierarchy, as it is executed by the kernel.  
In certain scenarios, this is what you may desire. You may want a reliable and battle tested process running as the init, especially on servers.You might also consider having it on your desktop for convenience and accessibility.  
The thing is what works for others may not work for you.  

People have asked me what init they should use. The simplest answer, use the one that works best for you. If systemd is compatible with your system, why switch it?  
On top of that, some Linux distributions hard depend on systemd. For example, [Arch Linux](https://archlinux.org/)  where the entire system is built on the premise of using systemd. replacing it, while it can be done, is a quite annoying procedure.  
So all of this is to say: If you're a new user of nix and unsure about which init to use, it's best to stick with the default init.  

To quote a friend of mine, _"Linux users are all about freedom of choice, right up until someone's choice differs from theirs."_    

On the other hand, if you're the redpilled based user who is preaching to the newer, pure linux users:Shut up. Allow them to experience the advantages or disadvantages of the software themselves. 
After all, Despite my dislike for systemd, it does get the job done.  