+++
title = '0x06'
date = 2025-05-04T15:38:50+05:30
+++

# 0x06 — why I've been gone  

So… what year is it again? I think I blinked sometime in 2024 and woke up in a new timeline.  
If you’re wondering what happened — I did my A/L exam. Yep, That was the boss battle of 2024. Spoiler: I made it out alive  
The results came out last week, and I actually did well enough to get into a government uni. So yeah, I’ll be heading into CS or something and probably drowning in Math. Voluntarily, for some reason.

Honestly, 2024 wasn’t just a year I missed online — it was a year I kind of turned inward. Did a lot of self-reflection. Spent more time with my own thoughts. Came out of it with a different worldview, not like I became a monk or anything, but I definitely don’t see things the same way anymore. It's like the mental OS got an upgrade. Or at least a security patch.   

And then, for the last 3 months? I went full gamer mode. Absolute backlog annihilation. I finally got around to playing some of the titles that had been haunting my wishlist for years — Devil May Cry 5, Red Dead Redemption 2, Sekiro, The Witcher 3, God of War and threw in some indie bangers like Hades and Vampire Survivors for good measure. Also dipped into the chaos that is Valheim, Counter-Strike 2, and Apex Legends for some multiplayer mayhem.  

Almost all of this was on Linux, by the way — because of course it was. Except Apex. They nuked the anticheat compatibility, and now it throws a tantrum on launch. Kernel-level anticheats suck anyway (fight me).

If you're reading this and feel like throwing hands in CS2 or teaming up in Valheim, feel free to add me on Steam — @Dragnosmz.

Oh, and I read a bunch of books too. Here’s a little list of what’s been on my reading list:

- Meditations by Marcus Aurelius (I’ll probably write a whole post about this later, so stay tuned)
- The Witcher books, including The Last Wish by Andrzej Sapkowski
- The Selfish Gene by Richard Dawkins
- The Fifth Science by Exurb1a
- A bunch of programming-related ones like The Pragmatic Programmer: From Journeyman to Master by Dave Thomas
- The C Programming Language by Brian W. Kernighan (Yes, I’m that guy)

 And, of course, lots of Sinhala books, notably විස්මිත සිහින දකින්නා by දමිත නිපුණජිත්


Gonna pause it here for now, but there’s still a bunch more cool stuff coming. Hang tight, you’ll wanna see what’s next   
Until next time!   